feat(openthread): adds OpenThread Commissioning and UDP support (#12672)
espressif/arduino-esp32: docs/en/openthread/openthread.rst

  * ``OpenThreadCLI``: Stream-based CLI interface class

> * **Classes API**: Object-oriented classes that directly call OpenThread API functions

Reviewer: Please add a period at the end of each sentence on this bullet list.

* **Network Management**: Starting, stopping, and managing the Thread network
* **Device Role Management**: Getting and monitoring device role (Leader, Router, Child, Detached, Disabled)

> * **Dataset Management**: Setting and getting operational dataset parameters (offline via ``DataSet`` + ``commitDataSet`` or live via per-parameter setters)

Reviewer: Please add a period at the end of each sentence on this bullet list.

**CLI UDP Examples:**

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

**CLI UDP Examples:**

* **Legacy UDP Sensor Collector** - Creates a CLI-driven Thread Leader and UDP sink that receives sensor telemetry and sends acknowledgments. `View legacy UDP Sensor Collector code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP/udp_sensor_collector>`_
* **Legacy UDP Sensor Node** - Creates a CLI-driven sensor node, optionally configured as a sleepy child, that sends UDP telemetry to the collector. `View legacy UDP Sensor Node code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP/udp_sensor_node>`_
* **UDP Sensor Collector Node** - Creates a CLI-driven Thread Leader / collector with application-level ACK handling. `View CLI UDP Sensor Collector Node code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP_Sensor/CollectorNode>`_

> * **UDP Sensor Node** - Creates a CLI-driven sensor node with sequence-hold ACK behavior and optional Sleepy End Device behavior. `View CLI UDP Sensor Node code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP_Sensor/SensorNode>`_

Author: ```suggestion

* **UDP Sensor Collector** - Creates a Thread Leader and UDP sink that receives sensor telemetry and sends acknowledgments. `View UDP Sensor Collector code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP/udp_sensor_collector>`_
* **UDP Sensor Node** - Creates a sensor node, optionally configured as a sleepy child, that sends UDP telemetry to the collector. `View UDP Sensor Node code on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/CLI/UDP/udp_sensor_node>`_
```

**Native API Examples:**

> * **Native Examples Overview** - Describes the Native API examples and how to choose between them. `View Native examples README on GitHub <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/tree/master/libraries/OpenThread/examples/Native>`_

Reviewer: Please add a period at the end of each sentence on this bullet list.
Check for other bullet lists without a period when you have a sentence.

        }
    }

Commissioner (Leader / attached Router) - admits new joiners via PSKd:

.. code-block:: arduino

    #include <OThread.h>

    void setup() {
        Serial.begin(115200);

        // ... bring up the device as Leader (DataSet + commitDataSet + start) ...

        // Wait until the device is attached
        while (OThread.otGetDeviceRole() == OT_ROLE_DETACHED ||
               OThread.otGetDeviceRole() == OT_ROLE_DISABLED) {
            delay(100);
        }

        // Become the Commissioner and accept any joiner with PSKd "J01NME"
        if (OThread.startCommissioner() == OT_ERROR_NONE) {
            OThread.addJoiner("J01NME", nullptr, 120);  // window: 120 s
        }
    }

UDP over Thread
***************

Sending and receiving IPv6 UDP datagrams over the Thread mesh, using
``OThreadUDP`` (raw ``otUdpSocket``, no lwIP):

.. code-block:: arduino

    #include <OThread.h>
    #include <OThreadUDP.h>

    const uint8_t allNodesBytes[16] = {0xff, 0x02, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00,
                                       0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x01};
    IPAddress allNodes(IPv6, allNodesBytes);   // ff02::1

>     OThreadUDP Udp;

Reviewer 2: Use `OtUdp` or similar. This should be different than the regular UDP

Author: Do you mean changing the variable name Udp to OtUdp in the example from the documentation?
Or something else?

Author: This is not a global variable, it is declared in the Sketch. This is just an example of sketch code fragment.
OpenThread library has no global variables.

Reviewer 2: I mean changing all examples and docs to use `OtUdp` or similar, instead of `Udp`. It will make it clearer that it's using the openthread one and in cases where code is copy/pasted into sketches that also use Udp, there will not be any conflicts.

Author: done
